add path hierarchy tokenizer docs (#8494)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _analyzers/tokenizers/path-hierarchy.md

---
layout: default
title: Path hierarchy
parent: Tokenizers
nav_order: 90
---

> # Pattern tokenizer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Path hierarchy tokenizer
```

> The `path_hierarchy` tokenizer is designed to tokenize file-system-like paths (or similar hierarchical structures) by breaking them down into tokens at each hierarchy level. This tokenizer is particularly useful when working with hierarchical data such as file paths, URLs, or any other delimited paths.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `path_hierarchy` tokenizer tokenizes file-system-like paths (or similar hierarchical structures) by breaking them down into tokens at each hierarchy level. This tokenizer is particularly useful when working with hierarchical data such as file paths, URLs, or any other delimited paths.
```

}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

The response contains the generated tokens:

```json
{
  "tokens": [
    {
      "token": "/users",
      "start_offset": 0,
      "end_offset": 6,
      "type": "word",
      "position": 0
    },
    {
      "token": "/users/john",
      "start_offset": 0,
      "end_offset": 11,
      "type": "word",
      "position": 0
    },
    {
      "token": "/users/john/documents",
      "start_offset": 0,
      "end_offset": 21,
      "type": "word",
      "position": 0
    },
    {
      "token": "/users/john/documents/report.txt",
      "start_offset": 0,
      "end_offset": 32,
      "type": "word",
      "position": 0
    }
  ]
}
```

## Parameters

The `path_hierarchy` tokenizer can be configured with the following parameters.

Parameter | Required/Optional | Data type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :--- 
`delimiter` | Optional | String | Specifies the character used to separate path components. Default is `/`.
`replacement` | Optional | String | Configures the character used to replace the delimiter in the tokens. Default is `/`.
`buffer_size` | Optional | Integer | Specifies the buffer size. Default is `1024`.

> `reverse` | Optional | Boolean | If `true`, specifies to generate tokens in reverse order. Default is `false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`reverse` | Optional | Boolean | If `true`, generates tokens in reverse order. Default is `false`.
```

`skip` | Optional | Integer | Specifies the number of initial tokens (levels) to skip when tokenizing. Default is `0`.

## Example using delimiter and replacement parameters

> The following example configures custom `delimiter` and `replacement` parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example request configures custom `delimiter` and `replacement` parameters:
```
